README.md, before:

# dotrc

These are my OS and nix tool configuration files. I am primarily using **Fedora** and **Fedora WSL** so that is the most up to date ones. All available distro setups are:
- Fedora (redhat)
- Fedora WSL (redhat + windows)
- Manjaro (btw I use arch)
- popOS (debian)

The command line utilities that require configuration are also provided here:
- [git](./git/.gitconfig)
- [kitty](./kitty/kitty.conf)
- [ssh](./ssh/config)
- [spaceship](./config/spaceship.zsh)

Along with OS specific folder there is a [common script](./general.sh) which is nix agnostic and can be used for interacting with tools like:
- GnuPG (Open Pretty Good Privacy)
- SSH (Secure Shell)
- ZSH (Z Shell): Zinit installation for plugins
- Programming Language Setup: Rust, Go, Python, NodeJS
- NeoVIM: NvChad configuration
- Kitty Terminal
- Brew Installation

## Brew Packages

I make full use of [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) which provides easy installation and updates for all my command line softwares. Alongwith that some CLIs I don't prefer installing and they are used on the fly with help of [pkgx](https://github.com/pkgxdev/pkgx). Packages that are useful for CLI usage are:
- bottom: A customizable cross-platform graphical process/system monitor for the terminal.
- bat: A cat(1) clone with syntax highlighting and Git integration.
- ripgrep: ripgrep is a line-oriented search tool that recursively searches the current directory for a regex pattern.
- eza: A modern, maintained replacement for ls.
- procs: procs is a replacement for ps written in Rust.
- dust: du + rust = dust. Like du but more intuitive.
- duf: Disk Usage/Free Utility (Linux, BSD, macOS & Windows)
- difftastic: Difftastic is a structural diff tool that compares files based on their syntax.
- zellij: Terminal multiplexer
- nushell: A new type of shell.
- fzf: fzf is a general-purpose command-line fuzzy finder.

Most of these tools are rust rewrites except for duf and fzf.

## Terminal Hacks

### fzf

`fzf` can be come in very handy for searching history (Ctrl + r), files (fzf), play directory (Ctrl + t) and directory switch (Alt + c). Replacing words with "\*\*" triggers fzf in commands like kill, unalias, etc. We must set `export FZF_DEFAULT_COMMAND='rg --hidden --ignore .git -l -g""'` otherwise git files will also come in search.

We can combine `fzf`, `rg` and `nvim` by using something like:
```
rg <CODE_SEARCH> | fzf | cut -d':' -f 1 | xargs -n 1 nvim
```
In this case `rg` will search for string in the whole directory in each file, then pass it to `fzf` for fuzzy searching and on selecting a line we can pass the file name to `nvim` for opening.

We can also combine `fzf` with `pkgx kubectl` by selecting the pod line, then using awk to select just the name and then sending it to logs command for fetching logs using `xargs`.
```
pkgx kubectl get po -n <NAMESPACE> | fzf | awk '{print $1}' | xargs -n 1 pkgx kubectl logs -n <NAMESPACE>
```

### nvim

`nvim` using the `NvChad` gives you super powerful set of plugins out of the box. We first head to change the theme using `SPC t h`, catpuccin is my go to pastel theme these days. To refer the cheatsheet we can use `SPC c h`

For syntax highlighting we use `tree-sitter`, for any new language we just have to do `:TSInstall <LANG>` and full list can be retrieved using `:TSInstallInfo`.

To open file tree `Ctrl + n` is utilized, `a` for creating a new file, `m` key can be used to mark file in tree, `d` for delete, `c` for copying file, `p` for pasting it and `r` for renaming file.

Find files can be done using `SPC f f` throughout the directory. We can search in currently open buffers using `SPC f b`.

To split the screen we use `:sp` and `:vsp` vim commands. Then we can use `Ctrl + h/j/k/l` to move around. We can open new buffers using `SPC b`, close one using `SPC x` and then toggle them using `TAB` or `Shift TAB`.

A terminal can be opened in many configuration as `Alt v` for vertical, `Alt h` for horizontal and `Alt i` for floating terminal window.

Commit message:

general: add new brew packages and pkgx separate
- atuin and zoxide in brew install
- remove on fly packages from brew and configure with pkgx instead
Signed-off-by: Lakshya Singh <lakshay.singh1108@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# dotrc

These are my OS and nix tool configuration files. I am primarily using **Fedora** and **Fedora WSL** so that is the most up to date ones. All available distro setups are:
- Fedora (redhat)
- Fedora WSL (redhat + windows)
- Manjaro (btw I use arch)
- popOS (debian)

The command line utilities that require configuration are also provided here:
- [git](./git/.gitconfig)
- [kitty](./kitty/kitty.conf)
- [ssh](./ssh/config)
- [spaceship](./config/spaceship.zsh)

Along with OS specific folder there is a [common script](./general.sh) which is nix agnostic and can be used for interacting with tools like:
- GnuPG (Open Pretty Good Privacy)
- SSH (Secure Shell)
- ZSH (Z Shell): Zinit installation for plugins
- Programming Language Setup: Rust, Go, Python, NodeJS
- NeoVIM: NvChad configuration
- Kitty Terminal
- Brew Installation

## Brew Packages

I make full use of [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) which provides easy installation and updates for all my command line softwares. Packages that are useful for CLI usage are:
- bottom: A customizable cross-platform graphical process/system monitor for the terminal.
- bat: A cat(1) clone with syntax highlighting and Git integration.
- ripgrep: ripgrep is a line-oriented search tool that recursively searches the current directory for a regex pattern.
- eza: A modern, maintained replacement for ls.
- procs: procs is a replacement for ps written in Rust.
- dust: du + rust = dust. Like du but more intuitive.
- duf: Disk Usage/Free Utility (Linux, BSD, macOS & Windows)
- difftastic: Difftastic is a structural diff tool that compares files based on their syntax.
- zellij: Terminal multiplexer
- zoxide: zoxide is a smarter cd command, inspired by z and autojump.
- atuin: Magical shell history.
- fzf: A command-line fuzzy finder

Most of these tools are rust rewrites except for `duf` and `z`, I create an alias for them in my shell configuration file.

Note: Instead of autin, mcfly is also a good option to try.

## pkgx

[pkgx](https://github.com/pkgxdev/pkgx) is a command line tool developed by creator of Homebrew. It can run any command line tool that you need it to run and you can even specify specific version during the run. The best part about is that doesn't install anything globally on your system. So it's all clean and on the fly.

There are a plethora of new command line tools that I prefer using with help of pkgx, as below:
- fd: A simple, fast and user-friendly alternative to 'find'
- sd: Intuitive find & replace CLI (sed alternative)
- jq: Command-line JSON processor
- asdf: asdf is a CLI tool that can manage multiple language runtime versions on a per-project basis.
- hyperfine: A command-line benchmarking tool.
- ctop: Top-like interface for container metrics
- glow: Render markdown on the CLI, with pizzazz! 💅🏻

## Terminal Hacks

### fzf

`fzf` can be come in very handy for searching history (Ctrl + r), files (fzf), play directory (Ctrl + t) and directory switch (Alt + c). Replacing words with "\*\*" triggers fzf in commands like kill, unalias, etc. We must set `export FZF_DEFAULT_COMMAND='rg --hidden --ignore .git -l -g""'` otherwise git files will also come in search.

We can combine `fzf`, `rg` and `nvim` by using something like:
```
rg <CODE_SEARCH> | fzf | cut -d':' -f 1 | xargs -n 1 nvim
```
In this case `rg` will search for string in the whole directory in each file, then pass it to `fzf` for fuzzy searching and on selecting a line we can pass the file name to `nvim` for opening.

We can also combine `fzf` with `pkgx kubectl` by selecting the pod line, then using awk to select just the name and then sending it to logs command for fetching logs using `xargs`.
```
pkgx kubectl get po -n <NAMESPACE> | fzf | awk '{print $1}' | xargs -n 1 pkgx kubectl logs -n <NAMESPACE>
```

### nvim

`nvim` using the `NvChad` gives you super powerful set of plugins out of the box. We first head to change the theme using `SPC t h`, catpuccin is my go to pastel theme these days. To refer the cheatsheet we can use `SPC c h`

For syntax highlighting we use `tree-sitter`, for any new language we just have to do `:TSInstall <LANG>` and full list can be retrieved using `:TSInstallInfo`.

To open file tree `Ctrl + n` is utilized, `a` for creating a new file, `m` key can be used to mark file in tree, `d` for delete, `c` for copying file, `p` for pasting it and `r` for renaming file.

Find files can be done using `SPC f f` throughout the directory. We can search in currently open buffers using `SPC f b`.

To split the screen we use `:sp` and `:vsp` vim commands. Then we can use `Ctrl + h/j/k/l` to move around. We can open new buffers using `SPC b`, close one using `SPC x` and then toggle them using `TAB` or `Shift TAB`.

A terminal can be opened in many configuration as `Alt v` for vertical, `Alt h` for horizontal and `Alt i` for floating terminal window.
